# Transcript: am i dating AI?

- **Channel:** kate cassidy
- **URL:** https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=B_AYSFF52B8
- **Duration:** 24:29
- **Fetched:** 2026-04-20 16:22:42
- **Segments:** 530

---

**[0:00]** So, I read this piece on Substack recently titled, "I stumbled on my boyfriend's chachi BT and it ended our relationship and let me tell you that piece has rattled me. Truly rattled me." Now, the crux of it didn't come down to he was cheating or anything crazy like that. Instead, it signaled to me that there was a much bigger issue happening.

**[0:27]** Essentially, what she found out is that he had started turning to chatt and AI chatbot for every little gripe in their relationship. Every little annoyance they came up, every tiny complaint, every issue. He had started going directly to AI as his first source, his first person to field those sort of challenging human interpersonal relationship conversations. He was ruminating constantly over personal uncertainty in their relationship, but instead of perhaps talking to her about it or even talking to a friend, he was having extensive conversations with a chatbot. I've been thinking about this since I read it because honestly, I have had multiple personal encounters with similar issues in my own life and people that I'm close with and care about. More and more people are turning to AI and chat bots to sort through

**[1:27]** relationship issues, sort through a lot of human problems that they're having.

**[1:35]** And it causes me pause unsurprised to anyone in my audience. Of course, I work in tech. I use AI every single day for my job. I think it's very fantastic technology for certain things. But I think when we start to turn to AI for every small relationship friction that we're having, I think bigger ethical concerns start to arise. I've worked at the prime offender company, one of probably the worst when it comes to human extraction being the business model. But now what we're seeing with this trend of humans starting to process their relationships, their trauma, use AI for therapy, this is a different beast entirely and one that I think we all need to pay attention to and chat about. Had to make a little tea first though, of course. But I think it's an important conversation that we sit down

**[2:35]** and chat through together. Something that I've noticed on this channel, my my name is Kate Cassidy, by the way. On this channel, I talk about all things in tech, media, culture, eyes up here.

**[2:44]** Culture, society, and how they all intertwine. But I think that sometimes in this sit down talking head style format, people question if I'm AI. So going to try and shake up the format a bit to feel a little more relaxed to just have this conversation with you guys. I think it's important and I'm excited to hear what you think about this topic. I will say we are we're missing something. One second.

**[3:10]** Okay, great. How will you possibly know I'm an intellectual unless I have my trusted globe here beside me? So, you may be thinking this just can't be that common of a problem. But I found multiple studies that are starting to site pretty crazy numbers. One said that one in five people actually has started to turn to chat GPT, turn to AI chat bots and use recommendations and guidance that they get from those chat bots over a friend's advice. They start to use ChachiBT's advice over friends advice. And one in three people has actually turned to chatbt or AI for some type of emotional support.

**[4:03]** >> People talk about the most personal in their lives to chatt. It's, you know, people use it, young people especially like use it as a therapist, a life coach, uh having these relationship problems. What should I do? And I think the thing to note with all of these studies is it's still so early days with this technology that the research is going to be so delayed. It's going to be so far behind schedule, whatever schedule that might be, because we've seen this before. We saw this with social media. We see this with the rise of new technology. The research and the policy can't keep up with the way that humans are actually adopting this tech.

**[4:40]** And I think when you ground this specific Substack story in that growing reality that so many people are starting to use AI in this way, that's what struck so much of a chord with me.

**[4:52]** That's what really stood out to me is this isn't an isolated instance. So many people may be starting to experience in their own interpersonal relationships, family relationships, in their lives that people are leveraging AI and leaning on it to a point with their where they're more honest, where they're more able to open up to and be vulnerable with a machine, a frictionless entity that they can kick ideas around with online as opposed to being actually vulnerable and opening themselves up and having the hard conversation with a human. Now, the subst piece is an awesome read.

**[5:35]** Definitely go check it out. Not sure why she isn't writing it on Beehive, but I digress, but I do think I don't know about you. I would love to hear from you in the comments. I personally have seen versions of this pop up in multiple areas in my life. I have a few stories of how people in my own world, in my own orbit, are starting to use AI in this in this questionable questionable way. So, one of my friends had a big breakup about a year, year and a half ago now, perhaps two. It's been a while. We're in our late 20s, and I feel like it's that era where everyone is either getting married or having their big breakup. and then opening themselves up for future relationships where they're all going to get married, but my friend was dating.

**[6:30]** Oh, I was hesitant to share this part, but someone who actually works at anthropic. I'll keep it very very anonymous after that. But someone who is working on these AI models, frontier AI models all the time and deep deeply knows Claude and this breakup, my friend described that she found that their messaging back and forth was clearly synthesized through AI. All of the responses were in such a perfectly curated way in that it became clear to her that both she herself and her ex partner now both of them were using AI to craft perfect specific responses to every single text message that they were

**[7:31]** sending back and forth in this very hard, very challenging breakup period.

**[7:35]** And so instead of musling through the awkward conversations, the really hard heartbreaking, honestly, heartbreaking conversations and conflicts that you need to have when you're going through a breakup like that, they were both outsourcing a lot of that mental bandwidth that you need. They were outsourcing it all to AI. It wasn't an authentic, vulnerable conversation.

**[8:03]** Instead, it was people both deciding, "We want to avoid how challenging this situation is." They were both likely also turning to AI throughout their relationship to come up with ideas for things to craft messages back and forth to each other. If you're going to AI in the most challenging time of a relationship, deciding to dissolve said relationship, then it is definitely conceivable that throughout the entire relationship, they were both leveraging AI and turning towards it more than they perhaps should have throughout throughout their time together. Now, these were both very clearly AI techy people. But another person, another friend who's dear to me, I we actually briefly dated, but it didn't make sense for a whole host of reasons, but we are now friends. And he was confiding in me that recently he's been using ChachiBT.

**[9:06]** This is how he framed it to me. He said, "We've been I've been using ChachiBT to work on and bolster my emotional resilience." and he does not he's not as AI literate as I would say my first two friends in my example are. This friend is much more so a general public adopter and he truly flat out believed that he could turn to AI as his own form of therapy.

**[9:41]** He believed that he was working with AI to work through really challenging problems, figure out his instincts in interpersonal relationships, work through some trauma that he had that were showing up in repeating patterns of anxiety in early relationship times with people that he was dating. It was really eye opening to hear the way that he was using this technology because I don't think that there had ever at one point in the process been a pause to question should I be turning to AI to be my proxy for a therapist? or is this the type of conversation that I need to have with another human being, with someone who will challenge me and hold me accountable and reframe things in a way that sometimes you might not want to hear. Instead, turning to AI can be an issue for many reasons. For one, the

**[10:44]** source data that AI is using for all of these conversations that you might be having with it could very well be all from Reddit. And so when you think about it like that, do you want all of do you want all of the discussions that you're having around trying to build up your emotional resilience and working through trauma be sourced via these large language models through Reddit as that data that's being put into it? I don't know. I think Reddit's great for a lot of things. I use Reddit all the time. I think it's it's great if you actually go into it thinking this is a forum where I'm going to source a broad variety of answers but then ultimately figure it out on my own and muscle through it together. If you're just using an AI output, the chatbot's output and assuming that this is a really well-refined argument or discussion that we are having, the reality is that's

**[11:45]** just not the case. very often the data data in data out you know it's uh you never know where it could be p pulling that source material from and I think a a second issue when it comes to the way that this is becoming more and more prominent and a pattern where people are turning to AI for those interpersonal relationship figuring things out musling through interesting dynamics that all of us have to work through in life I think another issue is AI will not have any sort of push back or accountability on a broader context level. And let me let me explain that thought there more.

**[12:30]** Something that I am very conscious of even with myself is sometimes I will want to send a text message that may not be in my best interest to send said text message whether it's just not the right timing or I am going out on some crazy limb.

**[12:49]** Sometimes you just need a real gut reality check from your friends who are going to hold you accountable and say, "Kate, that is a crazy thing to send.

**[13:03]** Don't reach out to them right now." Or whatever the example may be. Sometimes there's just more context in a situation. And if you are turning to as the example in the Substack piece, if this boyfriend had turned to one of his peers, one of the people in his friend group, someone who see saw him and his girlfriend interact on a daily basis, and he went instead of to chatt, he went to this friend to discuss, hey, I'm kind of unsure about this relationship. can you just be an ear for me and listen to what's going on and what do you think about this? That will actually allow for the other person to push back, ask deeper questions, and have that actual in real life context. They might be able to say, "Hey, I actually think you've got a pretty good thing going here.

**[14:03]** You're being anxious. You're being irrational. You don't have to break up with her." Or they might say, you know, I had a feeling she did this thing at a party recently and that kind of made me question if you guys were the best fit for each other. Whatever it is, whatever path it would lead to, it would instead have a real person on the other side who will actually give you more friction, challenge you a bit more, and also encourage you to be a better version of yourself. as opposed to AI which is always at the end of the day trying to get you to spend more time with it. So it will not likely not intentionally put in any level of friction unless you explicitly ask it to. It won't have the broader context of your life, of your goals, of what you see out of the next

**[15:03]** couple years and how that might impact the relationship or how there's dynamics in the friend group that need to be considered. AI strips all of that away and it doesn't require vulnerability.

**[15:16]** There's something deeply human and vulnerable about having to turn to a friend or turn to one of your parents and say, "Hey, I'm not sure about this thing. I am feeling this type of way in my relationship. I need a little of advice here. Something's not working.

**[15:36]** We've been fighting. Whatever it is, I'm just uncertain and I need to kick kick this around with someone and I need some advice and guidance." That's hard to admit. It's hard to be vulnerable. It's hard to open up and lay yourself bare and share that things aren't going as rosy as they might seem on the outside.

**[16:00]** But it's important to do that because that level of opening up and vulnerability deepens our friendships and our relationships with each other.

**[16:10]** Or even having an honest conversation with your partner directly, saying, "Hey, I'm uncertain about this. I'm not entirely sure where this relationship is going. That is such a vulnerable state to come into it, but it's honest and it stops you from ruminating internally and then as an extension or a perceived extension of your brain turning to AI to ruminate even more so with a chatbot. A chatbot that won't introduce any friction. a chatbot that doesn't require you to actually be vulnerable because at the end of the day, you can just turn your phone off. You can just close chat GPT. You can turn over. It's late at night, 3:00 a.m. You're uncertain.

**[16:59]** You're next to your partner. You're on your phone. Is it working? I'm so stressed. Chat GPT, what's going on? And Chachi GPT can just say, "Break up with her." And then it's like, "Okay, go to bed. Turn over." and you're here in this human relationship, but you've been outsourcing that muscle, that vulnerability to something that won't even won't even respond back to you.

**[17:21]** There's no accountability. There's no vulnerability.

**[17:25]** There's no friction. We're not sure what the data that's in there, what the large language models are pulling from. don't know what sources are actually being aggregated to spit out that response, that output back to you. And it's just p it's just seemingly clean and on demand whenever you want it. If you're having a thought, if you're having an uncertainty, there it is at your fingertips, an AI chatbot. I think we're losing something when the first instinct that we have as people is to turn to a machine, to turn to technology, to turn to something inanimate, something that can't push back, something that you don't have a deep interpersonal relationship with. If I think we're losing something when that is our first instinct to turn to. It's worth asking the question, even in your own life, when something is going wrong, what is

**[18:26]** the first what's the first move that I typically make? Do I have a council of people? Do I have a community that I can rely on? Do I have even just one confidant that I can really trust and know that their advice and wisdom is something that I like to hear and want to listen to? And maybe it's a function of the fact that, as I've discussed in previous videos, we are in this loneliness economy where more and more people are struggling with not having that community basis that AI just seems like an easier option to turn to sometimes. Again, I'm not saying that AI can't be useful. In fact, I think it's some of the craziest best technology that is out there or has come onto the scene. Of course, I don't have many years of experience, but for me personally in my life, it's been really crazy to see how AI can automate certain work things, help with data

**[19:28]** analysis, so many different things.

**[19:30]** However, I am arguing that I don't think AI should be the first thing that you're turning to when something gets hard or when you have a question or something you need to talk through in your relationship. That call needs to belong to a person. Ideally, the person that you're having that friction with, but it can also be a confidant, community member, someone else, a friend, family.

**[19:56]** I think that call needs to be saved for a person, someone who has more context and might push back, might hold you accountable, might say, "Kate, you're crazy. Don't do that." And then on the flip side, you also want it to be someone who ideally would turn to you when they have their own struggles in their own life. That's the way that we deepen our relationship is by being vulnerable and open with each other. I'm certainly not immune to this. I in my own life have been dealing with a many big questions that I have in terms of what am I doing with my life? I say that jokingly, but I am likely moving soon.

**[20:38]** I'm figuring out some big life steps and I have been dealing with family drama and trauma and I don't always have someone to turn to. So, I get it. I turn to AI sometimes. I'm like, what neighborhood should I move to in this new city that I don't really know?

**[20:54]** I'm turning to AI for a lot of that stuff, too. And I still take the moment to pause and realize, wait a second, I actually should be discussing these things with a human. This is the type of intentional decision that we all are going to need to start making.

**[21:12]** Not to just take the easy way out always, not to just rely and outsource our decision-m to these AI chat bots and LLMs that often have questionable source data. Even just because it's a a simple easy aggregator, we can't be using the easy button all of the time. It's going to take intentionality, but we need to make the decision, you and me here and now. We need to make the decision that we're not always going to take that route. We are going to intentionally maintain that human decision-m because like any muscle, things will atrophy atrophy if you don't use it. You're going to lose some of that depth, some of that decision making, all of that interpersonal relationship dynamic navigating that we have to do and figure out in life. We're going to lose it if we just start going to AI for everything. Vulnerability is a

**[22:13]** skill and we can't keep we can't keep turning towards the easiest option when we are faced with any sort sort of discomfort or inconvenience in our own lives. I think we need to start a quiet resistance here because if more and more people if one three one and five are turning to AI for that interpersonal human relationship questions that they have and things that they want to work through. What does that mean bigger picture for humanity moving forward that all of us are basing our moral compasses and our trauma dealing with things, our therapy on Reddit data?

**[22:57]** I should stop just like willy-nilly throwing Reddit out there as the example, but you get what I mean. I'm making a pact with you here today, you and me. We're gonna be intentional and we're gonna stay above this and choose to maintain our human depth and make sure we have that sharpness of mind rather than starting to cognitively offload everything to AI. Can we pinky promise on that? That's my pinky promise. We will do this. We will stay intentional. And if you like me are curious about these sort of topics, I'm launching a newsletter, Curiously Kate.

**[23:40]** You can find information down below.

**[23:42]** Check it out. It's kind of going to be like an extension of the conversations that we have on this channel. I've tried different newsletter versions in the past and this I think is a format that I can actually keep consistent on. Uh past ones have either been too heavy lift or honestly not a topic that I was passionate enough about to keep going on. So I'm excited to roll this out. But I seriously would love to hear how you are thinking about these topics. Are you seeing examples like this in your own daily life or with your friends, with your family, with people who are being a little too trigger happy using AI? Let's chat about it in the comments down below. Thank you so much for tuning in.

**[24:23]** We will talk again soon. Bye.

---

## Plain Text

So, I read this piece on Substack recently titled, "I stumbled on my boyfriend's chachi BT and it ended our relationship and let me tell you that piece has rattled me. Truly rattled me." Now, the crux of it didn't come down to he was cheating or anything crazy like that. Instead, it signaled to me that there was a much bigger issue happening. Essentially, what she found out is that he had started turning to chatt and AI chatbot for every little gripe in their relationship. Every little annoyance they came up, every tiny complaint, every issue. He had started going directly to AI as his first source, his first person to field those sort of challenging human interpersonal relationship conversations. He was ruminating constantly over personal uncertainty in their relationship, but instead of perhaps talking to her about it or even talking to a friend, he was having extensive conversations with a chatbot. I've been thinking about this since I read it because honestly, I have had multiple personal encounters with similar issues in my own life and people that I'm close with and care about. More and more people are turning to AI and chat bots to sort through relationship issues, sort through a lot of human problems that they're having. And it causes me pause unsurprised to anyone in my audience. Of course, I work in tech. I use AI every single day for my job. I think it's very fantastic technology for certain things. But I think when we start to turn to AI for every small relationship friction that we're having, I think bigger ethical concerns start to arise. I've worked at the prime offender company, one of probably the worst when it comes to human extraction being the business model. But now what we're seeing with this trend of humans starting to process their relationships, their trauma, use AI for therapy, this is a different beast entirely and one that I think we all need to pay attention to and chat about. Had to make a little tea first though, of course. But I think it's an important conversation that we sit down and chat through together. Something that I've noticed on this channel, my my name is Kate Cassidy, by the way. On this channel, I talk about all things in tech, media, culture, eyes up here. Culture, society, and how they all intertwine. But I think that sometimes in this sit down talking head style format, people question if I'm AI. So going to try and shake up the format a bit to feel a little more relaxed to just have this conversation with you guys. I think it's important and I'm excited to hear what you think about this topic. I will say we are we're missing something. One second. Okay, great. How will you possibly know I'm an intellectual unless I have my trusted globe here beside me? So, you may be thinking this just can't be that common of a problem. But I found multiple studies that are starting to site pretty crazy numbers. One said that one in five people actually has started to turn to chat GPT, turn to AI chat bots and use recommendations and guidance that they get from those chat bots over a friend's advice. They start to use ChachiBT's advice over friends advice. And one in three people has actually turned to chatbt or AI for some type of emotional support. >> People talk about the most personal in their lives to chatt. It's, you know, people use it, young people especially like use it as a therapist, a life coach, uh having these relationship problems. What should I do? And I think the thing to note with all of these studies is it's still so early days with this technology that the research is going to be so delayed. It's going to be so far behind schedule, whatever schedule that might be, because we've seen this before. We saw this with social media. We see this with the rise of new technology. The research and the policy can't keep up with the way that humans are actually adopting this tech. And I think when you ground this specific Substack story in that growing reality that so many people are starting to use AI in this way, that's what struck so much of a chord with me. That's what really stood out to me is this isn't an isolated instance. So many people may be starting to experience in their own interpersonal relationships, family relationships, in their lives that people are leveraging AI and leaning on it to a point with their where they're more honest, where they're more able to open up to and be vulnerable with a machine, a frictionless entity that they can kick ideas around with online as opposed to being actually vulnerable and opening themselves up and having the hard conversation with a human. Now, the subst piece is an awesome read. Definitely go check it out. Not sure why she isn't writing it on Beehive, but I digress, but I do think I don't know about you. I would love to hear from you in the comments. I personally have seen versions of this pop up in multiple areas in my life. I have a few stories of how people in my own world, in my own orbit, are starting to use AI in this in this questionable questionable way. So, one of my friends had a big breakup about a year, year and a half ago now, perhaps two. It's been a while. We're in our late 20s, and I feel like it's that era where everyone is either getting married or having their big breakup. and then opening themselves up for future relationships where they're all going to get married, but my friend was dating. Oh, I was hesitant to share this part, but someone who actually works at anthropic. I'll keep it very very anonymous after that. But someone who is working on these AI models, frontier AI models all the time and deep deeply knows Claude and this breakup, my friend described that she found that their messaging back and forth was clearly synthesized through AI. All of the responses were in such a perfectly curated way in that it became clear to her that both she herself and her ex partner now both of them were using AI to craft perfect specific responses to every single text message that they were sending back and forth in this very hard, very challenging breakup period. And so instead of musling through the awkward conversations, the really hard heartbreaking, honestly, heartbreaking conversations and conflicts that you need to have when you're going through a breakup like that, they were both outsourcing a lot of that mental bandwidth that you need. They were outsourcing it all to AI. It wasn't an authentic, vulnerable conversation. Instead, it was people both deciding, "We want to avoid how challenging this situation is." They were both likely also turning to AI throughout their relationship to come up with ideas for things to craft messages back and forth to each other. If you're going to AI in the most challenging time of a relationship, deciding to dissolve said relationship, then it is definitely conceivable that throughout the entire relationship, they were both leveraging AI and turning towards it more than they perhaps should have throughout throughout their time together. Now, these were both very clearly AI techy people. But another person, another friend who's dear to me, I we actually briefly dated, but it didn't make sense for a whole host of reasons, but we are now friends. And he was confiding in me that recently he's been using ChachiBT. This is how he framed it to me. He said, "We've been I've been using ChachiBT to work on and bolster my emotional resilience." and he does not he's not as AI literate as I would say my first two friends in my example are. This friend is much more so a general public adopter and he truly flat out believed that he could turn to AI as his own form of therapy. He believed that he was working with AI to work through really challenging problems, figure out his instincts in interpersonal relationships, work through some trauma that he had that were showing up in repeating patterns of anxiety in early relationship times with people that he was dating. It was really eye opening to hear the way that he was using this technology because I don't think that there had ever at one point in the process been a pause to question should I be turning to AI to be my proxy for a therapist? or is this the type of conversation that I need to have with another human being, with someone who will challenge me and hold me accountable and reframe things in a way that sometimes you might not want to hear. Instead, turning to AI can be an issue for many reasons. For one, the source data that AI is using for all of these conversations that you might be having with it could very well be all from Reddit. And so when you think about it like that, do you want all of do you want all of the discussions that you're having around trying to build up your emotional resilience and working through trauma be sourced via these large language models through Reddit as that data that's being put into it? I don't know. I think Reddit's great for a lot of things. I use Reddit all the time. I think it's it's great if you actually go into it thinking this is a forum where I'm going to source a broad variety of answers but then ultimately figure it out on my own and muscle through it together. If you're just using an AI output, the chatbot's output and assuming that this is a really well-refined argument or discussion that we are having, the reality is that's just not the case. very often the data data in data out you know it's uh you never know where it could be p pulling that source material from and I think a a second issue when it comes to the way that this is becoming more and more prominent and a pattern where people are turning to AI for those interpersonal relationship figuring things out musling through interesting dynamics that all of us have to work through in life I think another issue is AI will not have any sort of push back or accountability on a broader context level. And let me let me explain that thought there more. Something that I am very conscious of even with myself is sometimes I will want to send a text message that may not be in my best interest to send said text message whether it's just not the right timing or I am going out on some crazy limb. Sometimes you just need a real gut reality check from your friends who are going to hold you accountable and say, "Kate, that is a crazy thing to send. Don't reach out to them right now." Or whatever the example may be. Sometimes there's just more context in a situation. And if you are turning to as the example in the Substack piece, if this boyfriend had turned to one of his peers, one of the people in his friend group, someone who see saw him and his girlfriend interact on a daily basis, and he went instead of to chatt, he went to this friend to discuss, hey, I'm kind of unsure about this relationship. can you just be an ear for me and listen to what's going on and what do you think about this? That will actually allow for the other person to push back, ask deeper questions, and have that actual in real life context. They might be able to say, "Hey, I actually think you've got a pretty good thing going here. You're being anxious. You're being irrational. You don't have to break up with her." Or they might say, you know, I had a feeling she did this thing at a party recently and that kind of made me question if you guys were the best fit for each other. Whatever it is, whatever path it would lead to, it would instead have a real person on the other side who will actually give you more friction, challenge you a bit more, and also encourage you to be a better version of yourself. as opposed to AI which is always at the end of the day trying to get you to spend more time with it. So it will not likely not intentionally put in any level of friction unless you explicitly ask it to. It won't have the broader context of your life, of your goals, of what you see out of the next couple years and how that might impact the relationship or how there's dynamics in the friend group that need to be considered. AI strips all of that away and it doesn't require vulnerability. There's something deeply human and vulnerable about having to turn to a friend or turn to one of your parents and say, "Hey, I'm not sure about this thing. I am feeling this type of way in my relationship. I need a little of advice here. Something's not working. We've been fighting. Whatever it is, I'm just uncertain and I need to kick kick this around with someone and I need some advice and guidance." That's hard to admit. It's hard to be vulnerable. It's hard to open up and lay yourself bare and share that things aren't going as rosy as they might seem on the outside. But it's important to do that because that level of opening up and vulnerability deepens our friendships and our relationships with each other. Or even having an honest conversation with your partner directly, saying, "Hey, I'm uncertain about this. I'm not entirely sure where this relationship is going. That is such a vulnerable state to come into it, but it's honest and it stops you from ruminating internally and then as an extension or a perceived extension of your brain turning to AI to ruminate even more so with a chatbot. A chatbot that won't introduce any friction. a chatbot that doesn't require you to actually be vulnerable because at the end of the day, you can just turn your phone off. You can just close chat GPT. You can turn over. It's late at night, 3:00 a.m. You're uncertain. You're next to your partner. You're on your phone. Is it working? I'm so stressed. Chat GPT, what's going on? And Chachi GPT can just say, "Break up with her." And then it's like, "Okay, go to bed. Turn over." and you're here in this human relationship, but you've been outsourcing that muscle, that vulnerability to something that won't even won't even respond back to you. There's no accountability. There's no vulnerability. There's no friction. We're not sure what the data that's in there, what the large language models are pulling from. don't know what sources are actually being aggregated to spit out that response, that output back to you. And it's just p it's just seemingly clean and on demand whenever you want it. If you're having a thought, if you're having an uncertainty, there it is at your fingertips, an AI chatbot. I think we're losing something when the first instinct that we have as people is to turn to a machine, to turn to technology, to turn to something inanimate, something that can't push back, something that you don't have a deep interpersonal relationship with. If I think we're losing something when that is our first instinct to turn to. It's worth asking the question, even in your own life, when something is going wrong, what is the first what's the first move that I typically make? Do I have a council of people? Do I have a community that I can rely on? Do I have even just one confidant that I can really trust and know that their advice and wisdom is something that I like to hear and want to listen to? And maybe it's a function of the fact that, as I've discussed in previous videos, we are in this loneliness economy where more and more people are struggling with not having that community basis that AI just seems like an easier option to turn to sometimes. Again, I'm not saying that AI can't be useful. In fact, I think it's some of the craziest best technology that is out there or has come onto the scene. Of course, I don't have many years of experience, but for me personally in my life, it's been really crazy to see how AI can automate certain work things, help with data analysis, so many different things. However, I am arguing that I don't think AI should be the first thing that you're turning to when something gets hard or when you have a question or something you need to talk through in your relationship. That call needs to belong to a person. Ideally, the person that you're having that friction with, but it can also be a confidant, community member, someone else, a friend, family. I think that call needs to be saved for a person, someone who has more context and might push back, might hold you accountable, might say, "Kate, you're crazy. Don't do that." And then on the flip side, you also want it to be someone who ideally would turn to you when they have their own struggles in their own life. That's the way that we deepen our relationship is by being vulnerable and open with each other. I'm certainly not immune to this. I in my own life have been dealing with a many big questions that I have in terms of what am I doing with my life? I say that jokingly, but I am likely moving soon. I'm figuring out some big life steps and I have been dealing with family drama and trauma and I don't always have someone to turn to. So, I get it. I turn to AI sometimes. I'm like, what neighborhood should I move to in this new city that I don't really know? I'm turning to AI for a lot of that stuff, too. And I still take the moment to pause and realize, wait a second, I actually should be discussing these things with a human. This is the type of intentional decision that we all are going to need to start making. Not to just take the easy way out always, not to just rely and outsource our decision-m to these AI chat bots and LLMs that often have questionable source data. Even just because it's a a simple easy aggregator, we can't be using the easy button all of the time. It's going to take intentionality, but we need to make the decision, you and me here and now. We need to make the decision that we're not always going to take that route. We are going to intentionally maintain that human decision-m because like any muscle, things will atrophy atrophy if you don't use it. You're going to lose some of that depth, some of that decision making, all of that interpersonal relationship dynamic navigating that we have to do and figure out in life. We're going to lose it if we just start going to AI for everything. Vulnerability is a skill and we can't keep we can't keep turning towards the easiest option when we are faced with any sort sort of discomfort or inconvenience in our own lives. I think we need to start a quiet resistance here because if more and more people if one three one and five are turning to AI for that interpersonal human relationship questions that they have and things that they want to work through. What does that mean bigger picture for humanity moving forward that all of us are basing our moral compasses and our trauma dealing with things, our therapy on Reddit data? I should stop just like willy-nilly throwing Reddit out there as the example, but you get what I mean. I'm making a pact with you here today, you and me. We're gonna be intentional and we're gonna stay above this and choose to maintain our human depth and make sure we have that sharpness of mind rather than starting to cognitively offload everything to AI. Can we pinky promise on that? That's my pinky promise. We will do this. We will stay intentional. And if you like me are curious about these sort of topics, I'm launching a newsletter, Curiously Kate. You can find information down below. Check it out. It's kind of going to be like an extension of the conversations that we have on this channel. I've tried different newsletter versions in the past and this I think is a format that I can actually keep consistent on. Uh past ones have either been too heavy lift or honestly not a topic that I was passionate enough about to keep going on. So I'm excited to roll this out. But I seriously would love to hear how you are thinking about these topics. Are you seeing examples like this in your own daily life or with your friends, with your family, with people who are being a little too trigger happy using AI? Let's chat about it in the comments down below. Thank you so much for tuning in. We will talk again soon. Bye.