# Transcript: What AI Actually Means for Software Engineers

- **Channel:** Jean Lee
- **URL:** https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JOA5x89MjRc
- **Duration:** 43:08
- **Fetched:** 2026-05-30 18:47:23
- **Segments:** 1251

---

**[0:00]** Coding might be something that the m the the machine can go but building reliable software but it's not going away.

**[0:03]** >> This is Gerge Oros the creator of Pragmatic Engineer the number one newsletter on Substack and a podcast. He also worked as a software engineer and an engineering manager at companies like Skype and Uber. What were the good, the bad, or the weird working at Uber?

**[0:18]** >> It was the hottest company in the planet. From the outside, Uber looked great and everything is held together by duct tape. I asked him all about what's really happening in software engineering today.

**[0:29]** >> Until very recently, how how well people did on the coding tests made a big difference if most people will give up and and now AI comes in and everyone can do it.

**[0:38]** >> What are some patterns that you've noticed?

**[0:40]** >> They were the ones who I I would call product minded software engineers. Teams are becoming smaller. Engineering manager careers are just becoming a lot less common, lucrative.

**[0:48]** >> Will AI replace software engineers? the bar at some point will be like not are you smarter than an AI in certain dimensions but are you as good and are you >> here is the full episode.

**[0:59]** >> So Ger welcome to the channel.

**[1:00]** >> It's really good to be here and also in person.

**[1:05]** >> Yes. What was your origin story? How did you get into tech?

**[1:07]** >> Uh I started coding while in high school. I I had a programming class but I quickly outgrew that and I started to hack with PHP on on the side but I never thought of it as programming. I just thought of it as hacking like I did like a little bit of JavaScript, a little bit of PHP. When I got to university, I I chose computer science as a major. I was kind of debating between should I choose law or economics or or software engineering and I didn't have a passion for it and in the first like two years I almost like lost all my passion for it because first of all it was a computer science course and what I thought would happen is we would learn coding that did not happen. We started to learn analysis and differential equations, probability theory, and all of the all these hardcore maths, physics. We had like hardcore physics. We were learning about about the marov equations and and relativity theory, but like the hardcore math stuff. And I was like like why why why are we why are we doing all these things? And then we finally had coding and it almost killed me because we did C

**[2:10]** C language which is which is a very low-level language and I I was really struggling with memory allocation and then when I got through that we we got given a mandatory course called 3D graphics. So it was a lot of these basics and and what I found the most frustrating is they didn't really teach us to code. So I I actually had to teach myself to like use things like like net and and some of the programming languages which I found really strange.

**[2:35]** In Europe there is this thing where universities start teach a lot of theory and that the practical stuff you you pick up but eventually I figured out that I do like building software and I I went through this and all of these bas these fundamentals turned out they they turned out to be pretty helpful years later where I had all these basics. So when LMS came came along and everyone was wondering why Nvidia is doing that good. I remember that well I understand that LLMs are a lot of matrix transformations and 3D graphics is all about matrix transformations and GPUs and matrix transformation can be paralyzed and GPUs are good at parallelizing therefore this is why it it works so that's how I got that's how I got into tech and from from there on I just worked my way up I I worked at a small consultancy in Hungary I moved to the UK worked at a small consultancy there I got my first kind of bigger job moving up to London I was building side projects on the side including Windows phone applications later worked at Skype built doing I got really lucky building the early Xbox One got to work at Skyscatter another startup and finally

**[3:36]** made my way to Uber in Amsterdam.

**[3:38]** >> Let's talk a little bit about your time at Uber. You were there during the time of sort of a turmoil. There was a lot of scandals going on during at Uber and it was in a hyperrowth culture at the time.

**[3:49]** So tell us about what were the good, the bad or the weird at working at Uber? Oh yeah, Uber. Uber was an awesome place.

**[3:57]** Like I'm so glad I was there at the most chaotic times. Like if if you can choose to join a chaotic company that's moving fast, like you should just go cuz you learn so much.

**[4:08]** >> So when I joined Uber in 2016, it was the hottest company in the planet. Uh and it was in a positive sense. It was a little bit like Entropic is right now or what OpenAI was maybe a year ago or what Google was back in 2004 or something like this. the the news was very positive about of Uber. They just raised the largest round ever. They were growing faster than ever. People loved Uber because they were just a lot better than taxis. This was 2016 and I I was kind of surprised that I even got an offer from them. Uh they were growing a team in in Amsterdam. It was still a very small team and in Amsterdam I I also partially joined because in Amsterdam they were doing payments which was one of the few very important areas at Uber. In fact, the team that I worked on owned the endpoint which whenever you request an Uber ride, it checks for your for your payment profile and if you have a payment profile, you can proceed. But if that endpoint is down, the whole flow breaks. Uh when I joined from the outside, Uber looked great and when I

**[5:09]** joined inside, everything is held together by duct tapes and Google Sheets.

**[5:14]** So our on call was was a mess. Uh it was very very noisy and like constant stress, no tips, no cash. It was a bit eye opening that how how messy things were, you know, like the industry best practices that I was used to working at places like Skype etc were not followed like things like even like project retrospectives whatnot. It was just everyone was yoloing it. Uber had a lot of surprisingly a lot of junior engineers. And one thing that people don't really understand about Uber is the whole microservices thing. By the time I arrived there, there were Uber had like 5 5,000 or something microservices and a lot of companies started to copy that because Uber went into talks. But as I understand the background of why all that happened, which which is what most people don't know is around 2013 or 2014, Uber knew that they would hire very very quickly. They had at the time maybe 200 engineers and they knew this would be 2,000 in two years or so. And they needed to decide how are they going to deal with this? And they also knew there

**[6:15]** will be so many engineers because they will have a lot of products like they'll have 10 or 15 different products like of course Uber Uber Eats but Uber Rush, Uber Air, Uber Uber, Uber Fright uh and and jump bikes and so on. And so they needed to figure out how are we going to scale this? And they could mostly hire mid-level or junior engineers. Senior engineer hiring was hard. So what they did which was brilliant is they created platform teams but put all the senior engineers there or most of them who created infrastructure for every team to be able to launch their own service and now every team was independent. They could only mess up themselves. They created microservices and this had the benefit of first of all these you know junior teams did not affect other junior teams like if a service went down it was fine and these junior engineers became really senior senior engineers in 6 to 12 months. So this worked brilliantly for her a company scaling up this fast, but everyone missed this part of the memo and they just start to copy the thousands of microservices.

**[7:13]** >> So in inside it was and this this 2016 was messy. It was it was just kind of it was it was you had to just continuously keep up. I I enjoyed it a lot. But we did have situations where we hired an engineer I remember from Google and the engineer quit by the end of the week and and and he quit saying this is not what I expected. You told me this is an early version of Google. This is not an early version of Google. It's chaos in here.

**[7:41]** And then my manager I remember told me Charles who I have a podcast episode with him. He's he was a great manager.

**[7:47]** He sat down with us and said like look guys we need to change something here on the interviews.

**[7:53]** don't sound like this is a great place to work. Like tell people about the problems. Like tell them that our uncle call is broken and we need to fix it that uh we're we're like fighting fires as well cuz this made no sense. Like he said, "I'm glad this person quit because it was better for them, but we should have just they should have not joined to start with." >> That's interesting. They picked Google company like among the big tech or the fan companies, Google has the most process. Uh we we said we're like an early version of Google because we wanted to sound cool and this might have just been my my team but back then Uber was seen really cool and we wanted to attract at that at that time in 2016 people would have an offer from Facebook, from Google, from name any other company and from Uber and they would choose Uber because Uber looked the promise was that Uber would be the mega next Google both financially, both in scale-wise and this was one of the reasons by the way that Uber rebuilt everything from scratch. We did not use other platforms. The the

**[8:54]** reasoning was always well we need our own scale. We will scale much bigger than any of the companies. Therefore, we cannot use what they have. Uber had its own data centers. We did not use cloud providers. We used a little bit of AWS later on. And now years later, Google has actually Uber has actually moved up.

**[9:12]** But we we built our own data centers. We had DCA. We had one on the east coast, one on the west coast and then later a third one being built. Uh you know like the own kind of hardware I don't think we manufactured our hardware but but we we had that part.

**[9:27]** Uber did everything custom which was actually a great and that was something really great about Uber is you learned so much building your own platforms your own own own systems. Uh that was probably it was in this sense comparable to Uber to Google actually. And you mentioned you transitioned into a manager role during this time. Tell us about your transition.

**[9:48]** >> My my transition was it was very very kind of accidental. And when I joined Uber, it was a very similar situation. I there was this small team in Amsterdam and the project that I was joining. I my Uber interview was was a mess. That just shows like how messy Uber was.

**[10:05]** Before Uber, I was doing iOS development and I was contacted for an iOS role. You know back then platforms were kind of important. That's how people were hired.

**[10:14]** So I went to interview expecting I will have an iOS interview and it said I was on the back track like like literally like it said back and track for my interview things like backend interview one back interview two system design and I was like huh I'm pretty sure I came for an iOS stroll but I was like let's just roll with the punches and and I did some backend before. So I like I introduced myself like hi I'm Gerge like I know it says backend engineer here.

**[10:37]** I'm actually doing mobile right now but I did backend before. So let's talk about it if that's what you want to talk about. And apparently I did pretty good on the backend interview. So I got a offer to join as backend engineer and they told me they're doing using Python.

**[10:49]** So I started to learn Python. And a week before I joined I got an email from a future manager saying hey can you do Android? And I was like like iOS backend and I never did Android before but they did iOS and Windows phone. And I said how hard can it be? Of course I can. But I asked like why? And they said like we cannot tell you that. And when I joined, turns out that Uber was in the middle of rewriting the Uber app in three months.

**[11:11]** So I just joined and we had three months to rewrite the whole Uber app, a million lines of code to a completely new design. And this was the project I was in. And this project had a lot of parallels to my Skype project, which is we had a few months, we were this remote team in Amsterdam, HQ was somewhere else, and HQ was moving with a different speed and they kept breaking us. And I I I saw this movie before. And so when I joined in my first like few weeks, my manager had like regular catch-ups with me and they like, "Oh, how's the project going? What do you think?" And I I just told them like, "Oh, I I think our project is a disaster." And like, "Oh, well, why why would you say that?" I'm like, "Well, for one, like I I've seen Scrum and all these things and I I don't believe in scrum." However, in scrum, we were honest with each other and and we had like we had demos for example, and all I saw is when I joined this team in Amsterdam, the way we did project management was very unconventional.

**[12:05]** There was this big spreadsheet of of people and projects and everyone worked on one project and every week we had a status meeting and the status meeting went people said like, "Are you ready with your work?" And this was like, "Well, I'm almost ready. I just need just one day and I'll be ready. So, let's mark it as green." And they're like, "Okay, we mark it as green." And the next week, this happened. Same thing, the same project. Are you ready with this? Like, oh, I just need one more day. Okay, let's mark it as green.

**[12:30]** And like, hang on. So, I I just said like, well, I don't think the project is going that well. If I was in charge, I think we would do demos. I think we would have people pair with each other.

**[12:40]** The most experienced people would work on the critical things. We would cut features, all that stuff. But I'm not in charge. I'm new, so this clearly works.

**[12:45]** Like, I'm the new guy. And long story short, a month and a half later, I was in I was in San Francisco doing my onboarding, which is called Uber.

**[12:55]** Uber has these like like funny things, University plus Uber. I was supposed to attend it, but I got pulled out of it and I I got pulled into a meeting with uh some important people there and they asked me like, G, did you know that Amsterdam was reporting everything being green when it's actually red? And I was like, I don't know anything about reporting. And say that's like, well, okay, this happened. So we are changing project leadership in Amsterdam and my manager got put in charge of leading the project instead of another manager and after meeting my manager came to me and said like Gerge I would like you to lead the project and I was like what like I I'm new and he said this is Charles again podcast episodes I facilitate him he's this really smart guy he said like look you are the only one in the whole team who has been telling me that things are not going well and even more you're the only one who gave suggestions and so I kind of I I led the project and all I did is I took whatever I saw at Microsoft at Skype on this project that was also a mad march to the end. I saw what worked there. I just put it in place. I acted all confident because I

**[13:57]** was just copying whatever I saw. So when people said, "Is this going to work?" I said, "Yes, it's going to work." And they said, "Why?" I'm like, "Well, because it's worked before. It will work now." So I had a mix of conviction, a mix of having seen this movie before.

**[14:09]** And next thing I know, I'm I'm basically working as a manager. And when the project ended, we we shipped. It was all successful. A few months later, I became a manager. Um, like we we were trying to hire managers. We couldn't really hire them. It was an obvious choice of, well, I've been doing this work. And I figured I've never been a manager. I was a tech lead before, but I figured I just want to learn about management. So, I said yes. Uber had this interesting thing where as a manager, you didn't make more money at all. It was the same level. In fact, I probably made less money because my performance review I I would have probably got on a good performance as an as an engineer doing, you know, great work. and I got a average performance you for a manager doing managerial stuff.

**[14:49]** >> Well, similar at Facebook too. It's a lateral move, not a upward move. When you become a manager, what are some patterns that you've noticed between engineers who are really successful and the engineers who maybe plateau after a while? the engineers who who were were doing real they they understood like what we're trying to do. They often took the initiative as well to test test competing apps what our what our competitors app doing. They they were the ones who I I would call product-minded software engineers. And I wrote about this back in in 2019. This was inspired by by people on my team.

**[15:21]** These days product engineers are someone people hire for. But even that many years earlier the engineers were who they were solid good engineers. They knew how to write high quality code.

**[15:32]** They were very comfortable. They they knew the basics of testing. They could keep a high standard across wherever they go. They were very curious about what everyone else was doing on the team on other teams. They made friends on other teams. Like friends just by being interested in in helping other people out. They were always in the code reviews. They often had one-on- ones with product managers. Not many of my engineers did, but they proactively set up saying, "Hey, could we catch up like once every month or two and just understand why we're here, what we're doing, what the business numbers are." And on planning meetings when we're kicking off a a project they would often bring bring suggestions for example the product manager will be like okay so we'll build this like payments feature where we want this like button and it should do like this and when that happens it should I know change the state etc and I remember this engineer would say like so hey central but how important is that user like the fact that that state would change for example because if we take that out the way our backend systems are architected if If we wanted to build that, that would be

**[16:32]** significant effort because there's a migration in progress and it it will take a few months. But if we take that out or at least we didn't include it in the launch, it would already simplify the effort by like like instead of a few months, it will be probably a few weeks or or not even. And we had this discussion on the planning meeting and instead of what usually happens is the product manager lays out the vision, the engineers go back and actually do the plan and you might have the trade-off.

**[16:55]** So they were just really plugged in. Uh and those engineers did did really really well because they they could prioritize the most important work. They could also say no to things that were not top priority for the business or for the team. So product-minded engineers or product engineers even even six or seven years ago.

**[17:16]** >> So for individuals engineers to be able to succeed being product minded and asking great questions for the business is a great skill to have. What about people who are interested in ma becoming a manager?

**[17:30]** >> I was at Uber at a time where we had we were hiring so many people. We're growing stuff so fast. We needed managers just natural. And also this was at a time where it was conventional wisdom was that for every five to eight engineers you need to have a manager.

**[17:40]** And you need to have a manager because the business Uber told us you need to have one-on-one meetings with everyone on your team every week. And the reason you need to have one-on-one meetings, they didn't tell us, but it kind of, you know, we figured out attrition was a big problem in the industry at the time. You did not want to lose your engineers. And a easy way to not lose your engineers is if you have every week you have a one-on-one with them. You know what's happening with them. You will see when there's problems and you can get ahead of them. For when I was at Uber for four years, everyone who I managed was still at Uber. I think two people left my team in total of those four years and everyone was still there. That's not to say that some people were not looking. I knew when people were looking for a different job. In fact, I encouraged them because I figured I mean, I'm employed by this company, but I I always saw myself as I was hoping to help people on the long term. So, I actually I I had engineers and I saw that they were kind of looking outside and I'm like, "Oh, I I know you're looking for a job." I'm like, "Can I help you with tips on like what companies to to look at?" And then, you know, a few months later, he came back like I talked with

**[18:40]** all the companies. Uber is still the the my my best option right now. Uh so to be a good manager, I don't think you know if you're going to be a good manager or not unless you try it out. So like step one is if you ever have an opportunity to become a manager. If it's in a safe environment where you have a path back, then do it. At Uber, what I really liked about it when I became a manager, it was an apprentice management program. And what it was is you became an apprentice manager. Your level doesn't change. You get some training and after 6 months u Uber decides like can you be a manager and you can also decide and you can go back to being an individual contributor.

**[19:12]** And at Uber, I saw some of the best staff engineers were people who were managers for a year or two. They decided didn't like it. They came back to being an IC and they were such an amazing engineer because they were now a partner to their manager. They knew they wanted to support their manager because they wanted their manager to keep their job because they didn't want to do the job anymore.

**[19:32]** >> And they also had a lot of empathy for for all of this.

**[19:35]** >> So just if you can do do if you can do the job, do the job. And that I think you you'll learn it because it's it of course helps if you you know like a sign that you could be a good manager is if you if you do enjoy mentoring people.

**[19:47]** You do it in your free time. You do it when you're not asked to do it. I think that's the like the other best signal like I can see.

**[19:55]** >> I love it because I'm always a big um proponent on trying things out. You never know until you try it. Like that's why I also tell people like if you're not sure what type of engineer you want to be, try things out. I I loved how you talked about trying like you you did some iOS, you did some back end, you did you well sure I can figure out Android as well. You get that um confidence and assurance that you can learn new things when you try different things. I never felt my identity be to be a manager. Even when I was a manager, like it kind of feels like icky like you're a manager.

**[20:27]** And I can associate with like being an engineer like like building stuff or or doing things. And I I feel I feel it was a bit hard to hang on to that identity when all I was doing is managing a team.

**[20:37]** And I was kind of okay being a frontline manager, meaning I only had a team. But but when I had my first manager report under me, I was on track to being the senior manager. I didn't really like that. I felt I was in meetings. I'm very abstract and what's happening with AI now is like even before AI the best managers anywhere including at Uber the best directors the best VP of engineering there are people who are very very technical I remember this director of engineering and infrastructure where I had a meeting with the guy and he he had like 200 people in his organization and we were we were actually like talking about the implementation details of the submit queue of the build system they were doing and how it's he was telling me how it's working like all the technical details. I was like wow that is like first of all it's so much more approachable like he clearly cared about the technical details and it's it's also hard to do when you're managing all these things but these people have always been in demand a man someone who can man who manages people but can stay on top of the technical details understand what their teams are doing and can dive deep Amazon has this this

**[21:39]** leadership principle which I really like called dive deep it says leaders can dive deep they can go the very deep into any problem if they need to they don't do it every day but they on and with AI what's happening is there's no more excuse managers need to be technical or need to be able to go and even do the do the work and also my it's might be old school but my my view of any manager is you're only a good manager if you are able to do the work of the people that you manage you can just step in pick up the shovel do it you can and every now and then you you might do it to to make sure you don't forget it and this is a little bit old school but I think it's a really it challenges you to not be too removed Because I think the worst managers are the ones where you just don't understand. You have no empathy.

**[22:22]** You're kind of down there doing your stuff and they're talking about some lofty things that you don't care about.

**[22:27]** >> Well, that's a really great transition into the topic of AI. I'm sure it's on everyone's mind nowadays. So, I've read your blog about feeling the sense of grief about AI writing all the code. Um, and we're seeing it on the news, right?

**[22:42]** like I saw recently that claude code they said that AI is writing 100% of their code and it's not just them like everyone saying it tell us more about your sense of grief >> initially I had a lot of failures where I I just spent like nights debugging I was dreaming with code with with being stuck on a problem and over time I got better right I got better at building I got better at debugging and I later got to the point where I could now change stacks a lot easier I still I knew how to pick up new languages new frameworks and and you You get to the point where you're now surrounded by professionals at the workplace who are also just very good at coding. I, you know, I I got higher paying jobs because I was now good at coding algorithms on the spot, deploying to production, knowing all these bells and whistles. And I was just reflecting on how with AI writing the code, this is almost everyone can do this now. So all those 10 plus years of becoming a really good programmer, it's it it kind of feels lost. It was hard to get good at it until very recently. How

**[23:42]** how well people did on the coding test made a big difference if we made an offer or not. If people did poorly on the coding test, we we we said we're not going to hire you. When I was a hiring manager at at Uber, we were revamping our coding interview. Sorry, our our whole our whole interview for software engineers. And I remember sitting down with my manager and and my manager said like what do developers do most at Uber like ones and n2s and we said coding it's they spend 50% of their time coding and therefore we will design the interview to have at least 50% coding and all of this is gone and I think it sucks like like you know we can move on and and there will be like some some good things about it but I understand why a lot of people are are disappointed cuz it's it was hard to do it. It still is very hard to learn to be a good developer and and just just the co coding asp throw away AI and most people will give up. They will not push through. So it was just a really good

**[24:44]** selector for grit for honestly smartness to some extent for having a brain that can take this in and now AI comes in and everyone can do it. So that's that's a part of the grief. It it it feels and it feels very fast. It it it literally happened in in my mind in a few months.

**[25:00]** In November or September, it was still just a glorified autocomplete and it didn't write good enough code and and by December the new models came out and I I I just concluded it does write as good of code as I would. And in any framework that I'm not familiar with, it it writes better, frankly, a lot better.

**[25:17]** >> Like in the past, people would talk about how you need 10,000 hours to become an expert at something. So with AI doing all this work for us, can we really truly become expert in coding?

**[25:28]** >> There's this counterintuitive thing with AI where like it's it's it's really good and capable, but it does take some time to get good at it. I wonder if it's less and less time with the newer models, but there's this question like does this apply? I I'm pretty sure, by the way, it's no longer 10,000 hours at all. I I think you can get really good at these tools if you just put a few hours or a few days of focused effort. In fact, like I almost feel like it might break this model which kind of sucks a little bit because the 10,000 hours especially, you know, coding was a good example where in order to be good at coding, you needed to put in the time. You couldn't just be smart. I don't believe learning goes away and I don't believe effort goes away. So I I think that will be important but I think AI might be might be tricky because it might suggest that you can skip all the learning because all of this thing knows but I think the difference between the people who will be successful in any profession not just software engineering are the ones who do put in the effort understand things and use the AI as a tool maybe they speed up

**[26:29]** their understanding but they still think a lot about it they they still you know put together two plus two so so they can be in the driver's seat. I actually read an interesting report that said that if you are a no novice on a subject like you're a beginner on a subject and you ask chat GPT or any of the LLMs you're more likely to think that the answers are correct whereas if you're actually an expert you're more prone to find um more gaps in the responses.

**[27:01]** >> I I can totally see this. So like the reason I love using it for coding like I I just know when it's wrong like or I I just don't like where it's going and I just like throw it away or prompt it.

**[27:11]** Often I just prompt again but I like you know with coding like I love using it because it's my codebase which was preAI or even after AI I like architect it. I know what I want to see. I know what tests want to be. Sometimes it says are BS and I'm like like let's go back there. So like you know I know what good looks like. However, I I had to ask for legal advice for a pretty important case recently and I asked for, you know, I went to a legal firm and it onboarding takes forever and it takes it was Christmas time. They said we'll get back to you in like 3, four, five weeks. And I was like, okay, great. But it's important so I'm paying for them. And so I asked Perplexity, I asked Chad GPT, and I asked Claude the same question. I gave it as much context as I could give, which I give to the legal firm. And I asked like what is what is the outcome of this thing? And all three of them said that the outcome is a like it's it's you know between A and B which one is the outcome and they said A and here is the reasoning and it looked very very sound. Here's a regulation. Here's how it applies. Here why this is true in your situation here's the question marks

**[28:11]** and here has resolved. I was like oh that looks great. Why am I paying for a lawyer? And then a few weeks later, the lawyer comes back and they said it's B and it's B because of they said the same regulation but they had a few different parts. And I asked them like hang on like the AI said I didn't say AI but I asked the question like so why is it not this? And like oh well that makes no sense. Like okay the regulation that's how it's written but it's never how it's interpreted. Like the the judge has never interpreted it in that way which the AI and also as a novice I assume they will be interpreted in. So as a novice I would have absolutely believed Chad GBT but turns out that it had missing information. It didn't have awareness of the real world of and it didn't have obviously it clearly didn't have training data on some of these things and you know I'm sure at some point they'll improve for example on this but it just showed me that like in the future even if this AI gets better I will still go to a lawyer if I have something on the line because I want a stamp of a professional authority. So I wonder if this this will be with with

**[29:14]** software as well for example you know like let's say the claude can generate great software okay great if you're a business like you actually have money you're making money you're like I don't know selling these cups like in in thousands or millions and you have software that manufactures and does all that stuff are you just going to tell cloud to build a software and add this new feature or will you actually want someone accountable in case things go wrong you you might pay you know an engineer or two or three those hundred or $200,000 a So that when things go wrong, you can tell them like what went wrong, who is accountable, and what are you going to do that it doesn't happen again? Because if you ask AI, it'll be like, "Oh, I'm sorry. You're right. Let me let me change this and this and this." And then it introduces something else. Right?

**[29:56]** >> So talking about all these engineering trends, are there trends in career that you've been also seeing?

**[30:01]** >> Lot of change happening. One very obvious thing that we're all seeing is teams are becoming smaller. Engineering teams are becoming smaller. Um re reorgs are happening. The two pizza team seems to be which is about like five to 10 engineers. It seems to be becoming one pizza team, two to four engineers at a lot of places. And related to this, the engineering career, engineering manager careers are just becoming a lot less common, lucrative. Uh this has happened this started in about 2023. Uh at the end of zero interest rates, a lot of middle management positions were eliminated at big tech from like Meta.

**[30:37]** Even Google was was starting to have just just teams were becoming flatter and now teams are becoming smaller. Uh remaining managers became more hands-on.

**[30:46]** And I'm seeing that most companies are going back to the model that some startups used to have which is let's say you have like 30 engineers. You have one director for all of these 30 engineers and you have a bunch of tech leads who don't really do people management and the director kind of does very lightweight people management. It's not as as as hands-on. So I think the the traditional like senior the the the career path of engine manager to senior engineing manager to director it's going into tech lead and maybe director.

**[31:16]** There's a lot lot less mobility, a lot less options. This also means that if you're an engineering manager or senior engine manager, it will be harder to find a a position. And I' I have a lot of friends who are either they're at a large enough company where they have enough scope for this or some are actively looking to transition into a staff engineering position for example.

**[31:36]** >> So looking at all these trends and reflecting on your experience working in tech. What do you think is the number one career advice that is actually a myth?

**[31:47]** >> So two things that not necessarily a myth but they have been overemphasized a bit. one, the best way to get ahead in your career is to change jobs often, like every every time you get a better offer, just go and jump to another uh place. And this is an advice that works really well in a hot market when you're growing quickly. And this this this was the hot market in like the the late 2019s or like between like 2015 to 2022 or so when everyone was hiring and you could kind of you could you could get salary increases, title increases by jumping to to different companies. It might also be true right now at AI companies as well. So if if you're in that field, you can actually get really good raises. So it does make sense to do it. However, for a long-term career, turns out that a lot of people were hopping at when they want to get into leadership positions or be considered for like you know like very senior individual contributors. It becomes a red flag of never staying at a place for let's say three plus years to see to both show that you have seen the impact of your own decisions and also to show

**[32:49]** that you actually can stay at a place and when the market becomes cool these people have a really hard time getting offers uh if they haven't put down roots. So so that's that's one. The other thing that I mean my assumption when I got into the workforce is well to to have a good career, show up every day, do great work, and that's it. And it would be nice if this was true. I think it's very important that you show up, you do the best work that you possibly can.

**[33:25]** You want to make sure that the work actually helps the business and that the business knows that your work was important. So there is a level of I'm not going to say promotion. It sounds that sounds I think a bit too pushy. But making sure that there's awareness of your work e either you share it for example with your team or or or or with others. But if you're working at a a larger workplace like just know that the the right people know about this. And the bigger the company, the more this kind of sounds like promotion. Like we in in the previous uh chat, we talked about how at Facebook the best engineers were the ones who promoted their work on the internal social network and people knew about it. But but it's true that at a larger place, people need to know about your work. At a smaller startup, you can just show it to the CEO or to the founder. So, so, so that's the the it's it's not a myth, but at at smaller companies, it's a lot better to be recognized, to have to be fairly evaluated and to be seen for for your worth. The larger the company, the more you will have to resort to promotion or be lucky for having a manager who pays

**[34:25]** attention to that.

**[34:27]** >> I I love those points. It's actually a sort of a pet peeve or red flag for me when I evaluate startup founders and I see their previous experience is like 10 different places at 10 different startups. I kind of don't want to join that company because how long are you going to stick through this company that you're starting now?

**[34:45]** >> When I talked with Michelle Hashimoto, he told me that one of the best ways he found to hire engineers is look for the look for the boring people. Oh, here here's a myth uh that is is is a total myth. The best the statement is the best engineers you can hire are active on GitHub. They have open source contributions. They all all these cool side projects and and because they are doing all these things and they show it in public, you can be certain that that person will be a great engineer.

**[35:11]** >> And it's true that those people are often good hires. But what is not true, the best engineers are often the ones with empty GitHub. Uh they actually leave work on time at 6:00 p.m. to pick up their kids. They show up. They show up in the morning at 8 and they put in 8 hours of really focused work as opposed to the other engineer that is still there at midnight but they they did a lot less work and most people find these people just boring or not passionate about the technology but when they're actually very efficient they get the work done incredibly well and they often do better job than than these people who have all these fancy resumes. It's just a lot of people pass on these people and the only ones who hire again are like you know Michelle Hashim who like made a career hiring a lot of people like this and and saw the benefits of doing so.

**[35:58]** >> I completely agree. Um I I see debate about empty GitHub pages.

**[36:04]** Maybe they're really busy building great things at work where their focus is 100% in their whatever they're building currently. So we we talked about a lot of things with all the changes coming with AI and all the patterns that you see with careers of software engineers.

**[36:22]** What do you think will actually matter in the next 5 years for software engineers right now?

**[36:28]** >> I think adaptability and curiosity and and leaving your ego at the door.

**[36:32]** There's going to be so much change and there already is so much change and if you hold on to your existing beliefs or as people like to call it your priors it will be holding you back. So the best analogy I've heard so far is from Grady Buch uh the the creator of UML and a lot of object-oriented programming and he said that actually this has happened before like this he's calling this a leap of abstraction. we're going from us, you know, like writing the code to us instructing the machine to write the code. And he said that when this happened uh in the maybe around 60s or 70s, up to then programming was done on mainframes with specialized languages for every machine, specialized assembly language and assembly instructions. So you were a programmer trained in this specific main frame or that specific main frame and you could program it with low-level instructions. And then compilers came out in high level languages like basic or forran.

**[37:30]** Microsoft created one of the early basic compilers. That's how they started their business. And these old-timers said like well that makes no sense. I mean yeah it's it's highle language but it's going to be a compiler and a compiler will never write as efficient code as we can do by hands because we know the registers. We know where the memory jumps are. We know all the rules. And it took us 10 years to to get good at this.

**[37:52]** And the next thing you know the compiler got as good as them and they had an ex existential crisis. The people who never believed this would be but of course we know that programming got bigger. There a lot more developers joined because now you didn't have to learn all those like you didn't need to learn a special assembly language for each computer. You needed to learn one highle language and be good at it. As great said that the newcomers who came in who didn't know about the past. They just got good at this language and they ran laps around these kind of old-timers who got stuck.

**[38:21]** But the old-timers who said like, "Oh, actually, let me learn this language." They now had the advantage of knowing the new and the old and they were a lot better than just the people who who knew the new. And I think this is the same thing that's happening. Coding might be something that the m the machine can go, but building software, building reliable software, building it quickly, it's not going away. And you we don't need to look far. The one of the best examples is Bor Boris Churnney who created Cloud Code. He literally created as a side project and now he's leading the whole effort. And if you look at back at his career, he is just a very good software developer who seems to have no problems letting go of whatever is working to learn something new. He famously broke both of his arms in a motorcycle accident and could only use two fingers to type. So he still coded. He moved over to functional programming where you can type fewer characters. And he got really good at functional programming.

**[39:16]** And now I mean he didn't break any arms but but now that Claude is there he is the first people at Entrophic and at Entrophic people don't use 100% of they don't they don't have Claude generate 100% of their code. Boris does. Most people are stuck at like 70 or 90%.

**[39:31]** Again he I think he's someone who who just lets go embraces what's there and is objectively one of the best software engineers out there.

**[39:40]** >> Okay. So before we wrap up let's do some fun rapid fire questions. I'm going to ask you just quick questions and you're going to answer the first thing that comes to your mind. Ready? Okay.

**[39:48]** >> So, first one, startup or big tech?

**[39:51]** >> Startup. And if you can after the startup, if you can do a little big tech experience, that's the best.

**[39:58]** >> Get do both. Generalist or specialist >> these days? Generalist. And and and with AI, you just become a specialist in whatever you want to be.

**[40:07]** >> Generalist with AI. Remote or in person?

**[40:08]** >> In person. there there's just something you learn so much more and you can go remote like the more time you spend in person and make strong personal connections those strong personal connections will allow you to work remotely somewhere where you people already trust you >> love it um backend or front end >> it's all the same these days full stack but backend is still a little bit more tricky and for front end you need you need to have an eye uh even with AI AI is not very good AI is a lot better at back end front end.

**[40:42]** >> Python or Java?

**[40:43]** >> Neither.

**[40:45]** >> But if I had to choose Python, TypeScript.

**[40:48]** >> What's your language? Oh, Typescript.

**[40:49]** Okay.

**[40:51]** >> I I it's growing on me. My My best language was always C. I love how deep the language is, but it's not really popular and I think TypeScript does a really good job with it g it gives all the benefits of a strongly typed system.

**[41:02]** It has decent performance and performance doesn't matter all that much on the on the back end honestly these days except for a few use cases. And I love the flexibility.

**[41:12]** >> Okay, next one's spicy. Tabs or spaces?

**[41:13]** >> Tabs all the way. Why would you have multiple spaces? Are we even talk talking about this?

**[41:20]** >> Async or meetings?

**[41:22]** >> I I want to say async because it sounds great. I I I love to minimize meetings when when we don't need to do it. But if it's meetings, might as well make it in person.

**[41:33]** >> Whiteboard interviews, are they useful or outdated? I think they're going to come back in style because when everyone has AI, remote interviews are kind of useless and when the AI is is as efficient, we're going to see way more whiteboard interviews where cuz you people still want to figure out who are people who can think for themselves. I think the bar at some point will be like not are you smarter than an AI in certain dimensions, but are you as good and are you as independent? You have independent thoughts and it's hard to do it remotely these days. It's a whiteboard.

**[42:03]** >> Will AI replace software engineers?

**[42:04]** >> No, they're they're going to augment them. Like I I see this a lot like uh software engineers are not going to lose their jobs like to AI, but they will lose it to someone a software engineer who is very comfortable using these tools and knows when to reach for them, is curious, keeps up with with the latest one. And that unfortunately will happen. Yeah, I think the whiteboard interviews it's going to be either in-person whiteboard interviews or just use AI remotely >> potentially, but I think using AI remotely is the more ca the more capable AI will become, the less signal it will give you. Shopify is is doing though the the interviews where they let anyone use AI and they work with them and they say it gives them pretty good signal. So I some people do. I think what's for sure is you need to change how you've been interviewing until now. Like uh if you keep the same, it's just not really going to work.

**[42:56]** >> Okay. Well, that's the end of the rapid fire questions. Thank you for being here and thank you for sharing your insights.

**[43:02]** >> It was great. Thanks for having me.

---

## Plain Text

Coding might be something that the m the the machine can go but building reliable software but it's not going away. >> This is Gerge Oros the creator of Pragmatic Engineer the number one newsletter on Substack and a podcast. He also worked as a software engineer and an engineering manager at companies like Skype and Uber. What were the good, the bad, or the weird working at Uber? >> It was the hottest company in the planet. From the outside, Uber looked great and everything is held together by duct tape. I asked him all about what's really happening in software engineering today. >> Until very recently, how how well people did on the coding tests made a big difference if most people will give up and and now AI comes in and everyone can do it. >> What are some patterns that you've noticed? >> They were the ones who I I would call product minded software engineers. Teams are becoming smaller. Engineering manager careers are just becoming a lot less common, lucrative. >> Will AI replace software engineers? the bar at some point will be like not are you smarter than an AI in certain dimensions but are you as good and are you >> here is the full episode. >> So Ger welcome to the channel. >> It's really good to be here and also in person. >> Yes. What was your origin story? How did you get into tech? >> Uh I started coding while in high school. I I had a programming class but I quickly outgrew that and I started to hack with PHP on on the side but I never thought of it as programming. I just thought of it as hacking like I did like a little bit of JavaScript, a little bit of PHP. When I got to university, I I chose computer science as a major. I was kind of debating between should I choose law or economics or or software engineering and I didn't have a passion for it and in the first like two years I almost like lost all my passion for it because first of all it was a computer science course and what I thought would happen is we would learn coding that did not happen. We started to learn analysis and differential equations, probability theory, and all of the all these hardcore maths, physics. We had like hardcore physics. We were learning about about the marov equations and and relativity theory, but like the hardcore math stuff. And I was like like why why why are we why are we doing all these things? And then we finally had coding and it almost killed me because we did C C language which is which is a very low-level language and I I was really struggling with memory allocation and then when I got through that we we got given a mandatory course called 3D graphics. So it was a lot of these basics and and what I found the most frustrating is they didn't really teach us to code. So I I actually had to teach myself to like use things like like net and and some of the programming languages which I found really strange. In Europe there is this thing where universities start teach a lot of theory and that the practical stuff you you pick up but eventually I figured out that I do like building software and I I went through this and all of these bas these fundamentals turned out they they turned out to be pretty helpful years later where I had all these basics. So when LMS came came along and everyone was wondering why Nvidia is doing that good. I remember that well I understand that LLMs are a lot of matrix transformations and 3D graphics is all about matrix transformations and GPUs and matrix transformation can be paralyzed and GPUs are good at parallelizing therefore this is why it it works so that's how I got that's how I got into tech and from from there on I just worked my way up I I worked at a small consultancy in Hungary I moved to the UK worked at a small consultancy there I got my first kind of bigger job moving up to London I was building side projects on the side including Windows phone applications later worked at Skype built doing I got really lucky building the early Xbox One got to work at Skyscatter another startup and finally made my way to Uber in Amsterdam. >> Let's talk a little bit about your time at Uber. You were there during the time of sort of a turmoil. There was a lot of scandals going on during at Uber and it was in a hyperrowth culture at the time. So tell us about what were the good, the bad or the weird at working at Uber? Oh yeah, Uber. Uber was an awesome place. Like I'm so glad I was there at the most chaotic times. Like if if you can choose to join a chaotic company that's moving fast, like you should just go cuz you learn so much. >> So when I joined Uber in 2016, it was the hottest company in the planet. Uh and it was in a positive sense. It was a little bit like Entropic is right now or what OpenAI was maybe a year ago or what Google was back in 2004 or something like this. the the news was very positive about of Uber. They just raised the largest round ever. They were growing faster than ever. People loved Uber because they were just a lot better than taxis. This was 2016 and I I was kind of surprised that I even got an offer from them. Uh they were growing a team in in Amsterdam. It was still a very small team and in Amsterdam I I also partially joined because in Amsterdam they were doing payments which was one of the few very important areas at Uber. In fact, the team that I worked on owned the endpoint which whenever you request an Uber ride, it checks for your for your payment profile and if you have a payment profile, you can proceed. But if that endpoint is down, the whole flow breaks. Uh when I joined from the outside, Uber looked great and when I joined inside, everything is held together by duct tapes and Google Sheets. So our on call was was a mess. Uh it was very very noisy and like constant stress, no tips, no cash. It was a bit eye opening that how how messy things were, you know, like the industry best practices that I was used to working at places like Skype etc were not followed like things like even like project retrospectives whatnot. It was just everyone was yoloing it. Uber had a lot of surprisingly a lot of junior engineers. And one thing that people don't really understand about Uber is the whole microservices thing. By the time I arrived there, there were Uber had like 5 5,000 or something microservices and a lot of companies started to copy that because Uber went into talks. But as I understand the background of why all that happened, which which is what most people don't know is around 2013 or 2014, Uber knew that they would hire very very quickly. They had at the time maybe 200 engineers and they knew this would be 2,000 in two years or so. And they needed to decide how are they going to deal with this? And they also knew there will be so many engineers because they will have a lot of products like they'll have 10 or 15 different products like of course Uber Uber Eats but Uber Rush, Uber Air, Uber Uber, Uber Fright uh and and jump bikes and so on. And so they needed to figure out how are we going to scale this? And they could mostly hire mid-level or junior engineers. Senior engineer hiring was hard. So what they did which was brilliant is they created platform teams but put all the senior engineers there or most of them who created infrastructure for every team to be able to launch their own service and now every team was independent. They could only mess up themselves. They created microservices and this had the benefit of first of all these you know junior teams did not affect other junior teams like if a service went down it was fine and these junior engineers became really senior senior engineers in 6 to 12 months. So this worked brilliantly for her a company scaling up this fast, but everyone missed this part of the memo and they just start to copy the thousands of microservices. >> So in inside it was and this this 2016 was messy. It was it was just kind of it was it was you had to just continuously keep up. I I enjoyed it a lot. But we did have situations where we hired an engineer I remember from Google and the engineer quit by the end of the week and and and he quit saying this is not what I expected. You told me this is an early version of Google. This is not an early version of Google. It's chaos in here. And then my manager I remember told me Charles who I have a podcast episode with him. He's he was a great manager. He sat down with us and said like look guys we need to change something here on the interviews. don't sound like this is a great place to work. Like tell people about the problems. Like tell them that our uncle call is broken and we need to fix it that uh we're we're like fighting fires as well cuz this made no sense. Like he said, "I'm glad this person quit because it was better for them, but we should have just they should have not joined to start with." >> That's interesting. They picked Google company like among the big tech or the fan companies, Google has the most process. Uh we we said we're like an early version of Google because we wanted to sound cool and this might have just been my my team but back then Uber was seen really cool and we wanted to attract at that at that time in 2016 people would have an offer from Facebook, from Google, from name any other company and from Uber and they would choose Uber because Uber looked the promise was that Uber would be the mega next Google both financially, both in scale-wise and this was one of the reasons by the way that Uber rebuilt everything from scratch. We did not use other platforms. The the reasoning was always well we need our own scale. We will scale much bigger than any of the companies. Therefore, we cannot use what they have. Uber had its own data centers. We did not use cloud providers. We used a little bit of AWS later on. And now years later, Google has actually Uber has actually moved up. But we we built our own data centers. We had DCA. We had one on the east coast, one on the west coast and then later a third one being built. Uh you know like the own kind of hardware I don't think we manufactured our hardware but but we we had that part. Uber did everything custom which was actually a great and that was something really great about Uber is you learned so much building your own platforms your own own own systems. Uh that was probably it was in this sense comparable to Uber to Google actually. And you mentioned you transitioned into a manager role during this time. Tell us about your transition. >> My my transition was it was very very kind of accidental. And when I joined Uber, it was a very similar situation. I there was this small team in Amsterdam and the project that I was joining. I my Uber interview was was a mess. That just shows like how messy Uber was. Before Uber, I was doing iOS development and I was contacted for an iOS role. You know back then platforms were kind of important. That's how people were hired. So I went to interview expecting I will have an iOS interview and it said I was on the back track like like literally like it said back and track for my interview things like backend interview one back interview two system design and I was like huh I'm pretty sure I came for an iOS stroll but I was like let's just roll with the punches and and I did some backend before. So I like I introduced myself like hi I'm Gerge like I know it says backend engineer here. I'm actually doing mobile right now but I did backend before. So let's talk about it if that's what you want to talk about. And apparently I did pretty good on the backend interview. So I got a offer to join as backend engineer and they told me they're doing using Python. So I started to learn Python. And a week before I joined I got an email from a future manager saying hey can you do Android? And I was like like iOS backend and I never did Android before but they did iOS and Windows phone. And I said how hard can it be? Of course I can. But I asked like why? And they said like we cannot tell you that. And when I joined, turns out that Uber was in the middle of rewriting the Uber app in three months. So I just joined and we had three months to rewrite the whole Uber app, a million lines of code to a completely new design. And this was the project I was in. And this project had a lot of parallels to my Skype project, which is we had a few months, we were this remote team in Amsterdam, HQ was somewhere else, and HQ was moving with a different speed and they kept breaking us. And I I I saw this movie before. And so when I joined in my first like few weeks, my manager had like regular catch-ups with me and they like, "Oh, how's the project going? What do you think?" And I I just told them like, "Oh, I I think our project is a disaster." And like, "Oh, well, why why would you say that?" I'm like, "Well, for one, like I I've seen Scrum and all these things and I I don't believe in scrum." However, in scrum, we were honest with each other and and we had like we had demos for example, and all I saw is when I joined this team in Amsterdam, the way we did project management was very unconventional. There was this big spreadsheet of of people and projects and everyone worked on one project and every week we had a status meeting and the status meeting went people said like, "Are you ready with your work?" And this was like, "Well, I'm almost ready. I just need just one day and I'll be ready. So, let's mark it as green." And they're like, "Okay, we mark it as green." And the next week, this happened. Same thing, the same project. Are you ready with this? Like, oh, I just need one more day. Okay, let's mark it as green. And like, hang on. So, I I just said like, well, I don't think the project is going that well. If I was in charge, I think we would do demos. I think we would have people pair with each other. The most experienced people would work on the critical things. We would cut features, all that stuff. But I'm not in charge. I'm new, so this clearly works. Like, I'm the new guy. And long story short, a month and a half later, I was in I was in San Francisco doing my onboarding, which is called Uber. Uber has these like like funny things, University plus Uber. I was supposed to attend it, but I got pulled out of it and I I got pulled into a meeting with uh some important people there and they asked me like, G, did you know that Amsterdam was reporting everything being green when it's actually red? And I was like, I don't know anything about reporting. And say that's like, well, okay, this happened. So we are changing project leadership in Amsterdam and my manager got put in charge of leading the project instead of another manager and after meeting my manager came to me and said like Gerge I would like you to lead the project and I was like what like I I'm new and he said this is Charles again podcast episodes I facilitate him he's this really smart guy he said like look you are the only one in the whole team who has been telling me that things are not going well and even more you're the only one who gave suggestions and so I kind of I I led the project and all I did is I took whatever I saw at Microsoft at Skype on this project that was also a mad march to the end. I saw what worked there. I just put it in place. I acted all confident because I was just copying whatever I saw. So when people said, "Is this going to work?" I said, "Yes, it's going to work." And they said, "Why?" I'm like, "Well, because it's worked before. It will work now." So I had a mix of conviction, a mix of having seen this movie before. And next thing I know, I'm I'm basically working as a manager. And when the project ended, we we shipped. It was all successful. A few months later, I became a manager. Um, like we we were trying to hire managers. We couldn't really hire them. It was an obvious choice of, well, I've been doing this work. And I figured I've never been a manager. I was a tech lead before, but I figured I just want to learn about management. So, I said yes. Uber had this interesting thing where as a manager, you didn't make more money at all. It was the same level. In fact, I probably made less money because my performance review I I would have probably got on a good performance as an as an engineer doing, you know, great work. and I got a average performance you for a manager doing managerial stuff. >> Well, similar at Facebook too. It's a lateral move, not a upward move. When you become a manager, what are some patterns that you've noticed between engineers who are really successful and the engineers who maybe plateau after a while? the engineers who who were were doing real they they understood like what we're trying to do. They often took the initiative as well to test test competing apps what our what our competitors app doing. They they were the ones who I I would call product-minded software engineers. And I wrote about this back in in 2019. This was inspired by by people on my team. These days product engineers are someone people hire for. But even that many years earlier the engineers were who they were solid good engineers. They knew how to write high quality code. They were very comfortable. They they knew the basics of testing. They could keep a high standard across wherever they go. They were very curious about what everyone else was doing on the team on other teams. They made friends on other teams. Like friends just by being interested in in helping other people out. They were always in the code reviews. They often had one-on- ones with product managers. Not many of my engineers did, but they proactively set up saying, "Hey, could we catch up like once every month or two and just understand why we're here, what we're doing, what the business numbers are." And on planning meetings when we're kicking off a a project they would often bring bring suggestions for example the product manager will be like okay so we'll build this like payments feature where we want this like button and it should do like this and when that happens it should I know change the state etc and I remember this engineer would say like so hey central but how important is that user like the fact that that state would change for example because if we take that out the way our backend systems are architected if If we wanted to build that, that would be significant effort because there's a migration in progress and it it will take a few months. But if we take that out or at least we didn't include it in the launch, it would already simplify the effort by like like instead of a few months, it will be probably a few weeks or or not even. And we had this discussion on the planning meeting and instead of what usually happens is the product manager lays out the vision, the engineers go back and actually do the plan and you might have the trade-off. So they were just really plugged in. Uh and those engineers did did really really well because they they could prioritize the most important work. They could also say no to things that were not top priority for the business or for the team. So product-minded engineers or product engineers even even six or seven years ago. >> So for individuals engineers to be able to succeed being product minded and asking great questions for the business is a great skill to have. What about people who are interested in ma becoming a manager? >> I was at Uber at a time where we had we were hiring so many people. We're growing stuff so fast. We needed managers just natural. And also this was at a time where it was conventional wisdom was that for every five to eight engineers you need to have a manager. And you need to have a manager because the business Uber told us you need to have one-on-one meetings with everyone on your team every week. And the reason you need to have one-on-one meetings, they didn't tell us, but it kind of, you know, we figured out attrition was a big problem in the industry at the time. You did not want to lose your engineers. And a easy way to not lose your engineers is if you have every week you have a one-on-one with them. You know what's happening with them. You will see when there's problems and you can get ahead of them. For when I was at Uber for four years, everyone who I managed was still at Uber. I think two people left my team in total of those four years and everyone was still there. That's not to say that some people were not looking. I knew when people were looking for a different job. In fact, I encouraged them because I figured I mean, I'm employed by this company, but I I always saw myself as I was hoping to help people on the long term. So, I actually I I had engineers and I saw that they were kind of looking outside and I'm like, "Oh, I I know you're looking for a job." I'm like, "Can I help you with tips on like what companies to to look at?" And then, you know, a few months later, he came back like I talked with all the companies. Uber is still the the my my best option right now. Uh so to be a good manager, I don't think you know if you're going to be a good manager or not unless you try it out. So like step one is if you ever have an opportunity to become a manager. If it's in a safe environment where you have a path back, then do it. At Uber, what I really liked about it when I became a manager, it was an apprentice management program. And what it was is you became an apprentice manager. Your level doesn't change. You get some training and after 6 months u Uber decides like can you be a manager and you can also decide and you can go back to being an individual contributor. And at Uber, I saw some of the best staff engineers were people who were managers for a year or two. They decided didn't like it. They came back to being an IC and they were such an amazing engineer because they were now a partner to their manager. They knew they wanted to support their manager because they wanted their manager to keep their job because they didn't want to do the job anymore. >> And they also had a lot of empathy for for all of this. >> So just if you can do do if you can do the job, do the job. And that I think you you'll learn it because it's it of course helps if you you know like a sign that you could be a good manager is if you if you do enjoy mentoring people. You do it in your free time. You do it when you're not asked to do it. I think that's the like the other best signal like I can see. >> I love it because I'm always a big um proponent on trying things out. You never know until you try it. Like that's why I also tell people like if you're not sure what type of engineer you want to be, try things out. I I loved how you talked about trying like you you did some iOS, you did some back end, you did you well sure I can figure out Android as well. You get that um confidence and assurance that you can learn new things when you try different things. I never felt my identity be to be a manager. Even when I was a manager, like it kind of feels like icky like you're a manager. And I can associate with like being an engineer like like building stuff or or doing things. And I I feel I feel it was a bit hard to hang on to that identity when all I was doing is managing a team. And I was kind of okay being a frontline manager, meaning I only had a team. But but when I had my first manager report under me, I was on track to being the senior manager. I didn't really like that. I felt I was in meetings. I'm very abstract and what's happening with AI now is like even before AI the best managers anywhere including at Uber the best directors the best VP of engineering there are people who are very very technical I remember this director of engineering and infrastructure where I had a meeting with the guy and he he had like 200 people in his organization and we were we were actually like talking about the implementation details of the submit queue of the build system they were doing and how it's he was telling me how it's working like all the technical details. I was like wow that is like first of all it's so much more approachable like he clearly cared about the technical details and it's it's also hard to do when you're managing all these things but these people have always been in demand a man someone who can man who manages people but can stay on top of the technical details understand what their teams are doing and can dive deep Amazon has this this leadership principle which I really like called dive deep it says leaders can dive deep they can go the very deep into any problem if they need to they don't do it every day but they on and with AI what's happening is there's no more excuse managers need to be technical or need to be able to go and even do the do the work and also my it's might be old school but my my view of any manager is you're only a good manager if you are able to do the work of the people that you manage you can just step in pick up the shovel do it you can and every now and then you you might do it to to make sure you don't forget it and this is a little bit old school but I think it's a really it challenges you to not be too removed Because I think the worst managers are the ones where you just don't understand. You have no empathy. You're kind of down there doing your stuff and they're talking about some lofty things that you don't care about. >> Well, that's a really great transition into the topic of AI. I'm sure it's on everyone's mind nowadays. So, I've read your blog about feeling the sense of grief about AI writing all the code. Um, and we're seeing it on the news, right? like I saw recently that claude code they said that AI is writing 100% of their code and it's not just them like everyone saying it tell us more about your sense of grief >> initially I had a lot of failures where I I just spent like nights debugging I was dreaming with code with with being stuck on a problem and over time I got better right I got better at building I got better at debugging and I later got to the point where I could now change stacks a lot easier I still I knew how to pick up new languages new frameworks and and you You get to the point where you're now surrounded by professionals at the workplace who are also just very good at coding. I, you know, I I got higher paying jobs because I was now good at coding algorithms on the spot, deploying to production, knowing all these bells and whistles. And I was just reflecting on how with AI writing the code, this is almost everyone can do this now. So all those 10 plus years of becoming a really good programmer, it's it it kind of feels lost. It was hard to get good at it until very recently. How how well people did on the coding test made a big difference if we made an offer or not. If people did poorly on the coding test, we we we said we're not going to hire you. When I was a hiring manager at at Uber, we were revamping our coding interview. Sorry, our our whole our whole interview for software engineers. And I remember sitting down with my manager and and my manager said like what do developers do most at Uber like ones and n2s and we said coding it's they spend 50% of their time coding and therefore we will design the interview to have at least 50% coding and all of this is gone and I think it sucks like like you know we can move on and and there will be like some some good things about it but I understand why a lot of people are are disappointed cuz it's it was hard to do it. It still is very hard to learn to be a good developer and and just just the co coding asp throw away AI and most people will give up. They will not push through. So it was just a really good selector for grit for honestly smartness to some extent for having a brain that can take this in and now AI comes in and everyone can do it. So that's that's a part of the grief. It it it feels and it feels very fast. It it it literally happened in in my mind in a few months. In November or September, it was still just a glorified autocomplete and it didn't write good enough code and and by December the new models came out and I I I just concluded it does write as good of code as I would. And in any framework that I'm not familiar with, it it writes better, frankly, a lot better. >> Like in the past, people would talk about how you need 10,000 hours to become an expert at something. So with AI doing all this work for us, can we really truly become expert in coding? >> There's this counterintuitive thing with AI where like it's it's it's really good and capable, but it does take some time to get good at it. I wonder if it's less and less time with the newer models, but there's this question like does this apply? I I'm pretty sure, by the way, it's no longer 10,000 hours at all. I I think you can get really good at these tools if you just put a few hours or a few days of focused effort. In fact, like I almost feel like it might break this model which kind of sucks a little bit because the 10,000 hours especially, you know, coding was a good example where in order to be good at coding, you needed to put in the time. You couldn't just be smart. I don't believe learning goes away and I don't believe effort goes away. So I I think that will be important but I think AI might be might be tricky because it might suggest that you can skip all the learning because all of this thing knows but I think the difference between the people who will be successful in any profession not just software engineering are the ones who do put in the effort understand things and use the AI as a tool maybe they speed up their understanding but they still think a lot about it they they still you know put together two plus two so so they can be in the driver's seat. I actually read an interesting report that said that if you are a no novice on a subject like you're a beginner on a subject and you ask chat GPT or any of the LLMs you're more likely to think that the answers are correct whereas if you're actually an expert you're more prone to find um more gaps in the responses. >> I I can totally see this. So like the reason I love using it for coding like I I just know when it's wrong like or I I just don't like where it's going and I just like throw it away or prompt it. Often I just prompt again but I like you know with coding like I love using it because it's my codebase which was preAI or even after AI I like architect it. I know what I want to see. I know what tests want to be. Sometimes it says are BS and I'm like like let's go back there. So like you know I know what good looks like. However, I I had to ask for legal advice for a pretty important case recently and I asked for, you know, I went to a legal firm and it onboarding takes forever and it takes it was Christmas time. They said we'll get back to you in like 3, four, five weeks. And I was like, okay, great. But it's important so I'm paying for them. And so I asked Perplexity, I asked Chad GPT, and I asked Claude the same question. I gave it as much context as I could give, which I give to the legal firm. And I asked like what is what is the outcome of this thing? And all three of them said that the outcome is a like it's it's you know between A and B which one is the outcome and they said A and here is the reasoning and it looked very very sound. Here's a regulation. Here's how it applies. Here why this is true in your situation here's the question marks and here has resolved. I was like oh that looks great. Why am I paying for a lawyer? And then a few weeks later, the lawyer comes back and they said it's B and it's B because of they said the same regulation but they had a few different parts. And I asked them like hang on like the AI said I didn't say AI but I asked the question like so why is it not this? And like oh well that makes no sense. Like okay the regulation that's how it's written but it's never how it's interpreted. Like the the judge has never interpreted it in that way which the AI and also as a novice I assume they will be interpreted in. So as a novice I would have absolutely believed Chad GBT but turns out that it had missing information. It didn't have awareness of the real world of and it didn't have obviously it clearly didn't have training data on some of these things and you know I'm sure at some point they'll improve for example on this but it just showed me that like in the future even if this AI gets better I will still go to a lawyer if I have something on the line because I want a stamp of a professional authority. So I wonder if this this will be with with software as well for example you know like let's say the claude can generate great software okay great if you're a business like you actually have money you're making money you're like I don't know selling these cups like in in thousands or millions and you have software that manufactures and does all that stuff are you just going to tell cloud to build a software and add this new feature or will you actually want someone accountable in case things go wrong you you might pay you know an engineer or two or three those hundred or $200,000 a So that when things go wrong, you can tell them like what went wrong, who is accountable, and what are you going to do that it doesn't happen again? Because if you ask AI, it'll be like, "Oh, I'm sorry. You're right. Let me let me change this and this and this." And then it introduces something else. Right? >> So talking about all these engineering trends, are there trends in career that you've been also seeing? >> Lot of change happening. One very obvious thing that we're all seeing is teams are becoming smaller. Engineering teams are becoming smaller. Um re reorgs are happening. The two pizza team seems to be which is about like five to 10 engineers. It seems to be becoming one pizza team, two to four engineers at a lot of places. And related to this, the engineering career, engineering manager careers are just becoming a lot less common, lucrative. Uh this has happened this started in about 2023. Uh at the end of zero interest rates, a lot of middle management positions were eliminated at big tech from like Meta. Even Google was was starting to have just just teams were becoming flatter and now teams are becoming smaller. Uh remaining managers became more hands-on. And I'm seeing that most companies are going back to the model that some startups used to have which is let's say you have like 30 engineers. You have one director for all of these 30 engineers and you have a bunch of tech leads who don't really do people management and the director kind of does very lightweight people management. It's not as as as hands-on. So I think the the traditional like senior the the the career path of engine manager to senior engineing manager to director it's going into tech lead and maybe director. There's a lot lot less mobility, a lot less options. This also means that if you're an engineering manager or senior engine manager, it will be harder to find a a position. And I' I have a lot of friends who are either they're at a large enough company where they have enough scope for this or some are actively looking to transition into a staff engineering position for example. >> So looking at all these trends and reflecting on your experience working in tech. What do you think is the number one career advice that is actually a myth? >> So two things that not necessarily a myth but they have been overemphasized a bit. one, the best way to get ahead in your career is to change jobs often, like every every time you get a better offer, just go and jump to another uh place. And this is an advice that works really well in a hot market when you're growing quickly. And this this this was the hot market in like the the late 2019s or like between like 2015 to 2022 or so when everyone was hiring and you could kind of you could you could get salary increases, title increases by jumping to to different companies. It might also be true right now at AI companies as well. So if if you're in that field, you can actually get really good raises. So it does make sense to do it. However, for a long-term career, turns out that a lot of people were hopping at when they want to get into leadership positions or be considered for like you know like very senior individual contributors. It becomes a red flag of never staying at a place for let's say three plus years to see to both show that you have seen the impact of your own decisions and also to show that you actually can stay at a place and when the market becomes cool these people have a really hard time getting offers uh if they haven't put down roots. So so that's that's one. The other thing that I mean my assumption when I got into the workforce is well to to have a good career, show up every day, do great work, and that's it. And it would be nice if this was true. I think it's very important that you show up, you do the best work that you possibly can. You want to make sure that the work actually helps the business and that the business knows that your work was important. So there is a level of I'm not going to say promotion. It sounds that sounds I think a bit too pushy. But making sure that there's awareness of your work e either you share it for example with your team or or or or with others. But if you're working at a a larger workplace like just know that the the right people know about this. And the bigger the company, the more this kind of sounds like promotion. Like we in in the previous uh chat, we talked about how at Facebook the best engineers were the ones who promoted their work on the internal social network and people knew about it. But but it's true that at a larger place, people need to know about your work. At a smaller startup, you can just show it to the CEO or to the founder. So, so, so that's the the it's it's not a myth, but at at smaller companies, it's a lot better to be recognized, to have to be fairly evaluated and to be seen for for your worth. The larger the company, the more you will have to resort to promotion or be lucky for having a manager who pays attention to that. >> I I love those points. It's actually a sort of a pet peeve or red flag for me when I evaluate startup founders and I see their previous experience is like 10 different places at 10 different startups. I kind of don't want to join that company because how long are you going to stick through this company that you're starting now? >> When I talked with Michelle Hashimoto, he told me that one of the best ways he found to hire engineers is look for the look for the boring people. Oh, here here's a myth uh that is is is a total myth. The best the statement is the best engineers you can hire are active on GitHub. They have open source contributions. They all all these cool side projects and and because they are doing all these things and they show it in public, you can be certain that that person will be a great engineer. >> And it's true that those people are often good hires. But what is not true, the best engineers are often the ones with empty GitHub. Uh they actually leave work on time at 6:00 p.m. to pick up their kids. They show up. They show up in the morning at 8 and they put in 8 hours of really focused work as opposed to the other engineer that is still there at midnight but they they did a lot less work and most people find these people just boring or not passionate about the technology but when they're actually very efficient they get the work done incredibly well and they often do better job than than these people who have all these fancy resumes. It's just a lot of people pass on these people and the only ones who hire again are like you know Michelle Hashim who like made a career hiring a lot of people like this and and saw the benefits of doing so. >> I completely agree. Um I I see debate about empty GitHub pages. Maybe they're really busy building great things at work where their focus is 100% in their whatever they're building currently. So we we talked about a lot of things with all the changes coming with AI and all the patterns that you see with careers of software engineers. What do you think will actually matter in the next 5 years for software engineers right now? >> I think adaptability and curiosity and and leaving your ego at the door. There's going to be so much change and there already is so much change and if you hold on to your existing beliefs or as people like to call it your priors it will be holding you back. So the best analogy I've heard so far is from Grady Buch uh the the creator of UML and a lot of object-oriented programming and he said that actually this has happened before like this he's calling this a leap of abstraction. we're going from us, you know, like writing the code to us instructing the machine to write the code. And he said that when this happened uh in the maybe around 60s or 70s, up to then programming was done on mainframes with specialized languages for every machine, specialized assembly language and assembly instructions. So you were a programmer trained in this specific main frame or that specific main frame and you could program it with low-level instructions. And then compilers came out in high level languages like basic or forran. Microsoft created one of the early basic compilers. That's how they started their business. And these old-timers said like well that makes no sense. I mean yeah it's it's highle language but it's going to be a compiler and a compiler will never write as efficient code as we can do by hands because we know the registers. We know where the memory jumps are. We know all the rules. And it took us 10 years to to get good at this. And the next thing you know the compiler got as good as them and they had an ex existential crisis. The people who never believed this would be but of course we know that programming got bigger. There a lot more developers joined because now you didn't have to learn all those like you didn't need to learn a special assembly language for each computer. You needed to learn one highle language and be good at it. As great said that the newcomers who came in who didn't know about the past. They just got good at this language and they ran laps around these kind of old-timers who got stuck. But the old-timers who said like, "Oh, actually, let me learn this language." They now had the advantage of knowing the new and the old and they were a lot better than just the people who who knew the new. And I think this is the same thing that's happening. Coding might be something that the m the machine can go, but building software, building reliable software, building it quickly, it's not going away. And you we don't need to look far. The one of the best examples is Bor Boris Churnney who created Cloud Code. He literally created as a side project and now he's leading the whole effort. And if you look at back at his career, he is just a very good software developer who seems to have no problems letting go of whatever is working to learn something new. He famously broke both of his arms in a motorcycle accident and could only use two fingers to type. So he still coded. He moved over to functional programming where you can type fewer characters. And he got really good at functional programming. And now I mean he didn't break any arms but but now that Claude is there he is the first people at Entrophic and at Entrophic people don't use 100% of they don't they don't have Claude generate 100% of their code. Boris does. Most people are stuck at like 70 or 90%. Again he I think he's someone who who just lets go embraces what's there and is objectively one of the best software engineers out there. >> Okay. So before we wrap up let's do some fun rapid fire questions. I'm going to ask you just quick questions and you're going to answer the first thing that comes to your mind. Ready? Okay. >> So, first one, startup or big tech? >> Startup. And if you can after the startup, if you can do a little big tech experience, that's the best. >> Get do both. Generalist or specialist >> these days? Generalist. And and and with AI, you just become a specialist in whatever you want to be. >> Generalist with AI. Remote or in person? >> In person. there there's just something you learn so much more and you can go remote like the more time you spend in person and make strong personal connections those strong personal connections will allow you to work remotely somewhere where you people already trust you >> love it um backend or front end >> it's all the same these days full stack but backend is still a little bit more tricky and for front end you need you need to have an eye uh even with AI AI is not very good AI is a lot better at back end front end. >> Python or Java? >> Neither. >> But if I had to choose Python, TypeScript. >> What's your language? Oh, Typescript. Okay. >> I I it's growing on me. My My best language was always C. I love how deep the language is, but it's not really popular and I think TypeScript does a really good job with it g it gives all the benefits of a strongly typed system. It has decent performance and performance doesn't matter all that much on the on the back end honestly these days except for a few use cases. And I love the flexibility. >> Okay, next one's spicy. Tabs or spaces? >> Tabs all the way. Why would you have multiple spaces? Are we even talk talking about this? >> Async or meetings? >> I I want to say async because it sounds great. I I I love to minimize meetings when when we don't need to do it. But if it's meetings, might as well make it in person. >> Whiteboard interviews, are they useful or outdated? I think they're going to come back in style because when everyone has AI, remote interviews are kind of useless and when the AI is is as efficient, we're going to see way more whiteboard interviews where cuz you people still want to figure out who are people who can think for themselves. I think the bar at some point will be like not are you smarter than an AI in certain dimensions, but are you as good and are you as independent? You have independent thoughts and it's hard to do it remotely these days. It's a whiteboard. >> Will AI replace software engineers? >> No, they're they're going to augment them. Like I I see this a lot like uh software engineers are not going to lose their jobs like to AI, but they will lose it to someone a software engineer who is very comfortable using these tools and knows when to reach for them, is curious, keeps up with with the latest one. And that unfortunately will happen. Yeah, I think the whiteboard interviews it's going to be either in-person whiteboard interviews or just use AI remotely >> potentially, but I think using AI remotely is the more ca the more capable AI will become, the less signal it will give you. Shopify is is doing though the the interviews where they let anyone use AI and they work with them and they say it gives them pretty good signal. So I some people do. I think what's for sure is you need to change how you've been interviewing until now. Like uh if you keep the same, it's just not really going to work. >> Okay. Well, that's the end of the rapid fire questions. Thank you for being here and thank you for sharing your insights. >> It was great. Thanks for having me.